# CodeJam2019
This is my first hackathon project that I made with some of my friends in CodeJam 2019. The theme of the hackathon was 'No limits'. Hence, teams were allowed to build anything in the given time frame with the option of utilizing the API's provided by the companies present at the event. 

### Overview
The API used to develop this project was provided by WRNCH. They are a computer vision and deep learning software engineering company based in Montreal, Canada. The aim of our project was to build an application that would analyze human movement when performing an exercise and provide feedback to the user about their progress in real time. Basically we wanted to make a workout assistant that would help people improve their movements when performing an exercise, get optimal results and reduce the possibilities for any injuries. This was the long term goal idea of our team and we wanted to use the real-time engine that was provided with the WRNCH API. 

### Progress Made 
Due to the amount of time we had for this hackathon, we decided to focus on analyzing only one exercise; the movement of the arm during a rep of dumbbell press. The code written in the Python script analyzes a single frame (a picture) and provides feedback to the user by saying if it is a "Good posture" or "Bad posture". This was only a small part of the long term goal that was described above in the overview section, however in the time that we had we learnt a lot about the resource that was provided. We had some issues with using the real-time function of the WRNCH API and hence decided to implement a program that analyzed the human posture for a single frame (a JPEG image processed by the WRNCH ai engine). If we had more time, we could extend this idea to multiple frame analysis (analyzing a video). 

### Final thoughts
Given this was my first hackathon, even though we achieved a small part of our goal, I had a lot fun contributing to our project and learning about the different resources that were available for us to use in the event. I personally enjoyed attending the workshops and talking with the different companies present and learning about how they wanted to make a differnce in the world. 
